.TH "YADQT" "1" "0.1.0" "K.D.Hedger" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
yadqt - Create Qt5/6 dialogs from the commandline.
.br

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByadqt \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
.br

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Create Qt5 or Qt6 dialogs from the commandline.
.br
This is a similar app to Yad for gtk.
.br

Current dialog types:
.br
about
.br
aboutqt
.br
query
.br
info
.br
warn
.br
fatal
.br
input
.br
getitem
.br
form
.br
list
.br
textfile
.br
imagefile
.br
colour
.br
font
.br
text
.br
.SH "OPTIONS"
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
.br
       Displays help on commandline options.
.br

\fB--help-all\fR
.br
       Displays help including Qt specific options.
.br

\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
.br
       Displays version information.
.br

\fB-t\fR, \fB--title \fR<YadQt>
.br
       Title.
.br

\fB-b\fR, \fB--body \fR<Information>
.br
       Body.
.br

\fB-d\fR, \fB--default \fR<keithhedger>
.br
       Default text ( lists, forms etc ).
.br

\fB--fromstdin\fR
.br
       Read default data from stdin.
.br

\fB--width \fR<640>
.br
       Dialog width ( set to 0 for default size for dialog ).
.br

\fB--height \fR<320>
.br
       Dialog height ( set to 0 for default size for dialog ).
.br

\fB--opseparator \fR<|>
.br
       Separator for multi item output ( use "newline" to use '\n' ).
.br

\fB--ipseparator \fR<|>
.br
       Separator for multi item default text input ( use "newline" to use '\n' ).
.br

\fB--multiple\fR
.br
       Select multiple items ( lists ).
.br

\fB--btntoerr\fR
.br
       Print button to stderr.
.br

\fB--buttons \fR<Ok>
.br
       Buttons ( for info boxes ).
.br

\fB--type \fR<aboutqt>
.br
       Box Type ( no type will display aboutbox for Qt ).
.br

.SH "RETURN"
Button names can be sent to standard error by using the --btntoerr option.
.br
Button names are in Qt style, see below.
.br

The return value is based on the key pressed.
.br
Keys that return 0:
.br
QMessageBox::Ok
.br
QMessageBox::Open
.br
QMessageBox::Save
.br
QMessageBox::Close
.br
QMessageBox::Apply
.br
QMessageBox::Reset
.br
QMessageBox::RestoreDefaults
.br
QMessageBox::Help
.br
QMessageBox::SaveAll
.br
QMessageBox::Yes
.br
QMessageBox::YesToAll
.br
QMessageBox::Retry
.br
QMessageBox::Ignore
.br

Keys that return 1:
.br
QMessageBox::Cancel:
.br
QMessageBox::No:
.br
QMessageBox::NoToAll:
.br
QMessageBox::Abort:
.br
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Create a fatal warning dialog, sending button chosen to /dev/pts/2 and display return code.
.br
yadqt --type=fatal -t "DANGER!" -b "BSOD!" --buttons="abort|Ignore" --btntoerr 2>/dev/pts/2;echo $?
.br

Simple form.
.br
yadqt --type=form -t "Simple Form" -b "Entry 1|Box Two|Data 3|Last Box"  --default="default 1|box 2|box n" --width=300 --height=0
.br

Show text from stdin.
.br
while read;do echo $REPLY;done< <(cat /etc/fstab)|yadqt --type=text --fromstdin --width=800 -t "Show Text"
.br

Display colour dialog and show result in input dialog.
.br
yadqt --type=colour --default="#c080ff80" -t "Select a colour..."|xargs yadqt --type=input -t "Results" -b "Colour Selected"  -d
.br

Simple search in current folder:
.br
Searches files for text and opens in default app.
.br
find .  -print0 |xargs -0 grep -s --binary-files=without-match --ignore-case --binary-files=without-match --line-number "$(yadqt --type=input -t Search -b "Search for")"|yadqt --type=list -t "Found" --width 800 --fromstdin --ipseparator=newline |awk -F: '{print $1}'|xargs xdg-open
.br

For more examples and screensots go to:
.br
https://github.com/KeithDHedger/YadQt
.br
.SH "AUTHORS"
Bugs, suggestions etc to:
.br
keithdhedger@gmail.com
.br
https://keithdhedger.github.io
.br
